[docs] EAS Build - multitarget/multiflavor bare projects (#15787)
expo/expo: docs/pages/build-reference/variants.md

**If you have a managed project**, this can be accomplished by using **app.config.js** and environment variables in **eas.json**.

> ## Example: configuring development and production variants in the managed project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: configuring development and production variants in a managed project
```

When you run `eas build --profile production` the `APP_VARIANT` variable environment will not be set, and the build will run as the production variant.

> **Note**: if you use `expo-updates` to publish JavaScript updates to your app, you should be cautious to set the correct environment variables for the app variant that you are publishing for when you run the `expo publish` command. Refer to the EAS Build ["Environment variables and secrets" guide](/build/updates.md) for more information.

> ## Example: configuring development and production variants in the bare project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: configuring development and production variants in a bare project
```

### Android

> In `android/app/build.gradle`, create a separate flavor for every build profile from eas.json you want to build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **android/app/build.gradle**, create a separate flavor for every build profile from **eas.json** that you want to build.
```

```groovy
android {
    ...
    flavorDimensions "env"
    productFlavors {
        production {
            dimension "env"
            applicationId 'com.myapp'
        }
        development {
            dimension "env"
            applicationId 'com.myapp.dev'
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

> **Note**: Currently, EAS CLI supports only the `applicationId` field. If you use `applicationIdSuffix` inside `productFlavors` or `buildTypes` sections then this value will not be detected correctly.

> Assign Android flavors to EAS build profiles by specifying a `gradleCommand` in the `eas.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assign Android flavors to EAS build profiles by specifying a `gradleCommand` in the **eas.json**:
```

```json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
        "android": {

>             "gradleCommand": ":app:assembleDevelopmentDebug"

Reviewer: we should use two spaces for indentation of json in the docs

        }
    },
    "production": {
        "android": {
            "gradleCommand": ":app:bundleProductionRelease"
        }
    }
  }
}
```

> By default, every flavor can be built in either debug or release mode. If you want to restrict some flavor to a specific mode, see the snippet below, and modify `build.gradle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, every flavor can be built in either debug or release mode. If you want to restrict some flavor to a specific mode, see the snippet below, and modify **build.gradle**.
```

```groovy
android {
    ...
    variantFilter { variant ->
        def validVariants = [
                ["production", "release"],
                ["development", "debug"],
        ]
        def buildTypeName = variant.buildType*.name
        def flavorName = variant.flavors*.name

        def isValid = validVariants.any { flavorName.contains(it[0]) && buildTypeName.contains(it[1]) }
        if (!isValid) {
            setIgnore(true)
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

The rest of the configuration at this point is not specific to EAS, it's the same as it would be for any Android project with flavors. There are a few common configurations that you might need to apply in your project

>  - To change the name of the app built using the development profile create a `./android/app/src/development/res/value/strings.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - To change the name of the app built with the development profile, create a `android/app/src/development/res/value/strings.xml` file.
```

>  - To change the name of the app built with the development profile, create a `android/app/src/development/res/value/strings.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - To change the name of the app built with the development profile, create a **android/app/src/development/res/value/strings.xml** file.
```

    ```xml
    <resources>
        <string name="app_name">MyApp - Dev</string>
    </resources>
    ```

>  - To change the icon of the app built usingthe development profile create `./android/app/src/development/res/midimap-*` directories with appropriate assets (you can copy them from `./android/app/src/main/res` and replace icon files).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - To change the icon of the app built with the development profile, create `android/app/src/development/res/midimap-*` directories with appropriate assets (you can copy them from `android/app/src/main/res` and replace the icon files).
```

>  - To change the icon of the app built with the development profile, create `android/app/src/development/res/midimap-*` directories with appropriate assets (you can copy them from `android/app/src/main/res` and replace the icon files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - To change the icon of the app built with the development profile, create `android/app/src/development/res/mipmap-*` directories with appropriate assets (you can copy them from **android/app/src/main/res** and replace the icon files).
```

>  - To specify the `google-services.json` for a specific flavor put it in a `./android/app/src/{flavor}/google-services.json` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - To specify `google-services.json` for a specific flavor put it in a `android/app/src/{flavor}/google-services.json` file.
```

>  - To specify `google-services.json` for a specific flavor put it in a `android/app/src/{flavor}/google-services.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - To specify **google-services.json** for a specific flavor put it in a **android/app/src/{flavor}/google-services.json** file.
```

>  - to configure sentry add `project.ext.sentryCli = [ flavorAware: true ]` in the `./android/app/build.gradle` and name your properties file `./android/sentry-{flavor}-{buildType}.properties` (e.g. `./android/sentry-production-release.properties`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - To configure sentry, add `project.ext.sentryCli = [ flavorAware: true ]` to `android/app/build.gradle` and name your properties file `android/sentry-{flavor}-{buildType}.properties` (e.g. `android/sentry-production-release.properties`)
```

>  - To configure sentry, add `project.ext.sentryCli = [ flavorAware: true ]` to `android/app/build.gradle` and name your properties file `android/sentry-{flavor}-{buildType}.properties` (e.g. `android/sentry-production-release.properties`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - To configure sentry, add `project.ext.sentryCli = [ flavorAware: true ]` to **android/app/build.gradle** and name your properties file `android/sentry-{flavor}-{buildType}.properties` (e.g. **android/sentry-production-release.properties**)
```

### iOS

> Assign separate scheme to every build profile in the `eas.json`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assign separate scheme to every build profile in `eas.json`:
```

> Assign separate scheme to every build profile in `eas.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assign a distinct scheme to every build profile in **eas.json**:
```

```json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
        "ios": {

>             "buildConfiguration": "Debug",

Reviewer: same re: two spaces indentation

            "scheme": "myapp"
        }
    },
    "production": {
        "ios": {
            "buildConfiguration": "Release",
            "scheme": "myapp-dev"
        }
    }
  }
}
```

> Your existing `Podfile` should have target defined like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Podfile` should have a target defined like this:
```

```ruby
target 'myapp' do
    ...
end
```

> Replace it with abstract target, where common configuration can be copied from old target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace it with an abstract target, where common configuration can be copied from the old target.
```

```ruby
abstract_target 'common' do
  # put common target configuration here

  target 'myapp' do
  end

  target 'myapp-dev' do
  end
end
```

> Open project in the Xcode -> Click on the project name in navigation panel -> Right click on the existing target -> "Duplicate":

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open project in Xcode, click on the project name in the navigation panel, right click on the existing target, and click "Duplicate":
```

<ImageSpotlight alt="Duplicate Xcode target" src="/static/images/eas-build/variants/1-ios-duplicate-target.png" style={{maxWidth: 720}} />

> Rename target to something more meaningful e.g `myapp copy` -> `myapp-dev`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rename the target to something more meaningful, e.g. `myapp copy` -> `myapp-dev`.
```

> Configure scheme for new target:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure a scheme for the new target:
```

> - Go to `Product` -> `Scheme` -> `Manage schemes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Go to `Product` -> `Scheme` -> `Manage schemes`.
```

> - Find scheme `myapp copy` on the list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Find scheme `myapp copy` on the list.
```

> - Change scheme name `myapp copy` -> `myapp-dev`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Change scheme name `myapp copy` -> `myapp-dev`.
```

> - By default new scheme should be marked as shared, but Xcode does not create `.xcscheme` files. To fix that uncheck "Shared" checkbox and check it again, after that new `.xcscheme` file should show up in the `ios/myapp.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/xcschemes` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By default, the new scheme should be marked as shared, but Xcode does not create `.xcscheme` files. To fix that, uncheck the "Shared" checkbox and check it again, after that new `.xcscheme` file should show up in the `ios/myapp.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/xcschemes` directory.
```

> - By default, the new scheme should be marked as shared, but Xcode does not create `.xcscheme` files. To fix that, uncheck the "Shared" checkbox and check it again, after that new `.xcscheme` file should show up in the `ios/myapp.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/xcschemes` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, the new scheme should be marked as shared, but Xcode does not create `.xcscheme` files. To fix that, uncheck the "Shared" checkbox and check it again, after that new `.xcscheme` file should show up in the **ios/myapp.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/xcschemes** directory.
```

<ImageSpotlight alt="Xcode scheme list" src="/static/images/eas-build/variants/2-scheme-list.png" style={{maxWidth: 720}} />

> By default newly created target has separate Info.plist file (in our case it's `./ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`), to simplify your project we recommend to use the same file for all targets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the newly created target has separate Info.plist file (in our case it's `ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`). To simplify your project we recommend using the same file for all targets:
```

> - Delete `./ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Delete `./ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`.
```

> By default, the newly created target has separate Info.plist file (in our case it's `ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`). To simplify your project we recommend using the same file for all targets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the newly created target has separate **Info.plist** file (in our case it's **ios/myapp copy-Info.plist**). To simplify your project we recommend using the same file for all targets:
```

> - Delete `./ios/myapp copy-Info.plist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Delete **./ios/myapp copy-Info.plist**.
```

- Click on the new target.
- Go to `Build Settings` tab.
- Find `Packaging` section.

> - Change `Info.plist` value `myapp copy-Info.plist` -> `myapp/Info.plist`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Change `Info.plist` value - `myapp copy-Info.plist` -> `myapp/Info.plist`.
```

> - Change `Info.plist` value - `myapp copy-Info.plist` -> `myapp/Info.plist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change **Info.plist** value - **myapp copy-Info.plist** -> **myapp/Info.plist**.
```

- Change `Product Bundle Identifier`.

<ImageSpotlight alt="Xcode build settings" src="/static/images/eas-build/variants/3-target-build-settings.png" style={{maxWidth: 720}} />

> To change display name:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the display name:
```

> - Open `Info.plist` and add key `Bundle display name` with value `$(DISPLAY_NAME)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open **Info.plist** and add key `Bundle display name` with value `$(DISPLAY_NAME)`.
```

- Open `Build Settings` for both targets and find `User-Defined` section.
- Add key `DISIPLAY_NAME` with the name you want to use for that target.

> To change app icon:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the app icon:
```

> - Create new image set(you can create it from existing image set for current icon, usually named `AppIcon`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a new image set (you can create it from the existing image set for the current icon, it's usually named `AppIcon`)
```

> - Open `Build Settings` for a target that you want to change icon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open `Build Settings` for the target that you want to change icon.
```
